So let's do an exercise,
a bit of a discussion.
We're gonna look at a feature that we're
thinking about building, and we're
gonna talk about all of the components
of this that we need to think about for
accessibility.
So we're gonna look at a typeahead search
component modeled after the one on Amazon.
It has a lot of features built into it.
So, what questions are we
gonna ask up front?
What would we need to include or
not include to do this in phases?
What's critical to business needs?
What are the accessibility factors
that we need to think about?
So yeah, what are the requirements?
What would we need to cut if we had to?
Like if we're just not going to get this
shipped on time, what could we phase in?
So kind of looking at the overall
picture just to describe.
So it's the search Amazon kind of omnibox,
so
it has searching recommendations,
like random stuff.
It's Christmas time, so
this is what Amazon suggested to me.
But yeah, does anyone want to kind of take
a first pass at talking about what you
think the accessibility
requirements would be?
Sure.
>> So I guess keyboard navigation, so
making sure that you can navigate through
items with the tap keys,
potentially the arrow keys, and
then also making sure that
you're trapping focus properly.
And if somebody presses escape,
it goes back to where you were and
you're not suddenly getting
thrown somewhere else.
>> Love it, yeah, that's great.
Any other thoughts?
>> When you are focused on the search box,
is there a way to cue to the user
that all that information is there?
>> Good thinking.
>> It's like if I'm thinking about it and
I tab to it,
I don't know,
is it going to read the placeholder to me?
I don't know.
But then how do I know that there's like
a bunch of trending stuff down there?
Or maybe like my past
searches might be there.
>> Totally.
>> If you use alert or
something for that or.
>> Yeah, probably.
Yeah, so the word I was struggling
to find earlier is combo box.
So there's list boxes and combo boxes,
and this is probably a combo box.
So it's in a text input or
search input that
might bring up a slightly different
keyboard on a mobile device.
But when you type into it or
even just focus into it,
it opens all these suggestions.
So there's also the scrollable region kind
of in between, like I've been shopping for
toddler Christmas [LAUGH] gifts obviously,
but that needs to be reachable.
So the kind of best practice for
that is when you have a region like that
with overflow, either X or Y to scroll,
you put a tab index on it and
then you can use the arrow key.
So you can reach it and then you can
actually use the arrow keys for that.
I didn't know that right away,
I had to learn that too.
But you've made a really good point that
we have to announce these items somehow.
So, combo boxes,
there's a really great one that
Kent C Dodds worked on called Downshift.
You could take some inspiration from that.
I've contributed to this one as well,
they're really great about open source and
accessibility.
But there's a live region in this one,
so that's how I think the Amazon
version could work is, in ARIA,
we have this thing called Live Regions.
And so
you can announce things to a screen reader
without moving the user's keyboard focus.
So I think a live region would
be pretty important in here and
we'd have to figure out what to announce.
Like, should you announce all the items?
I think a practice more
of the time is to say,
toddler toilet seat in all departments,
14 results.
And then the system should usually say
arrow down to navigate through the items.
The screen reader, if you're marking
things up using standard patterns,
it will often tell the user
how to navigate with it,
and that is configurable, like it depends
what screen reader they're using.
So, we don't want to be too
prescriptive with our announcements.
And this would be a really great candidate
for some user testing with people who use
screen readers,
people who have limited mobility.
I mean, for something as like revenue
generating as an Amazon search box,
you've got the budget to do user testing.
Like it really should be a part of it.
I mean, this is a core user flow, like as
core as it gets is the Amazon search box,
or if you're a retailer that's a huge
way that people find products.
But marking it up like
we have lists of items,
we want to mark those up in unordered
lists, use headings if possible.
I guess have some design decisions
on whether this is a modal or
non-modal layer.
Like should we trap
people's focus in there?
Probably, but
that's something we think about.
>> Would you want alt text on those
images or are the labels enough?
>> Good question.
So we have some images under keep shopping
for, there's some toy foods and books and
keyboards that I'm getting my daughter for
Christmas [LAUGH].
Yeah, so there's images and text.
So if we look at what the images are,
they're potentially more
detailed than what the text is.
It's kind of a squishy decision to make,
cuz it's a little bit subjective,
but I think sometimes the image
alt text can be informative,
where maybe it's a product name.
I recognize that product when I look at
it, so if somebody's been searching for
that type of product and we include
that information in the alt text, it is
a slightly different piece of content
than the text label cuz the portable,
an arranger, whatever that cut off
keyboard thing is, the label for that,
that's probably a category.
Whereas the actual product that's being
shown is something I recognize visually.
So there we can kind of
see a potential gap.
If we think it's best to hide information
just because that's what we assumed,
it might not be the right assumption.
We think through, that's like why it's so
important to think about people with
disabilities early on is because I'm
thinking about that experience of,
well, no, I would want a blind person
to be able to recognize a product also.
Even though, I mean,
that's a visual thing, but
we can kind of backfill have pixels
with text by using alt text and images.
So that's a really great question.
But again-
>> It's something you need to consider
very early on because if, for example,
your content management system doesn't
allow a place for someone to specify,
what is this thing?
The A4 key Casio keyboard,
it's X by Y, it's got these features.
>> Yeah.
>> Where is anyone gonna
source that text from?
>> Exactly, yeah.
>> And the thought process too kind of
reminds me of mobile first design, right?
If it's not good enough for mobile,
is it good enough for desktop?
And kind of think the same thing
here where it's like, okay,
if we don't think that describing the
image, because maybe in this case not so
much, but maybe in a different case where
it's like describing the image might not
be important for the screen reader, well
then we need to make that assumption for
somebody that's looking at it too.
Do we need the image there at all?
Or is it, or, yeah,
the image is really important.
Okay, well then we should describe it.
>> Yeah, I think there's some
cases where it is redundant.
Like if it wasn't a category in that
text it was actually the product name,
then you could probably leave the alt text
off the image because it's represented
another way.
So that would be
a slightly different case.
But yeah, you have to look at
the stuff and evaluate it up front.
We had a great question in our
last workshop about the back-end,
for is there anything we need to think
about on the back-end in our APIs?
And here's an example, if you have image
assets you need that alt text as well.
And hopefully it's just
part of the schema for
the data of any of these types of objects,
those products, those thumbnails.
You could use a product title for
the alt text if you needed to but
you want to be choosy,
make sure it works for the use case.
So I love this stuff, I think it's really
fun to think about, because I mean,
it's also really freeing in this exercise.
We don't have the real constraints
that you'd be under, so it's like,
thoughts are free,
we can just talk about it.
And so I think it is interesting
to review designs and
just talk about what are the requirements.
So if you can do this early on,
yeah, do that.
[LAUGH]
>> To your point,
adding another text field when you're
creating the schema and the API and
all of that, not that expensive.
Retrofitting one after you've already done
it and needing to touch every system it
flows through and so on-
>> That could be hard.
Yeah, they're distributed.
I mean, that's costly.
But I think the design, even,
if you had to make changes to that,
I mean, with a big enterprise like this,
that's not easy always.
>> Would it be like akin to
progressive enhancement almost,
where I'm just thinking
of getting that data.
I was at Target,
there was a huge issue where,
sellers are uploading this information and
expecting them to know how to
properly describe their images for
an accessible way is like a high bar.
It's like, how do you get,
is it acceptable to just be like,
we're gonna consider these
images like icons almost and
where they don't add value,
but is it just kind of
a decision to talk about or
is there a right answer there?
>> Well, I think we kind of highlighted
what I think is the right answer,
which is that there's some
benefit in having the image,
at least the product name, described here.
So, I think there's maybe
a way to satisfy a user need,
even if the sellers haven't
supplied all that alt text.
Increasingly, there are AI tools for
user generated content for
alt text, but they're not always great.
I mean, it's not the same.
It'll be like object may
contain plastic fruit,
I mean,
that would be pretty [LAUGH] informative.
But yeah, I mean, sometimes that's
the decision teams are making.
I guess what I'm encouraging is to think
through the use cases a little bit more
of like, what's the experience?
And sometimes you have constraints,
there's no way around them.
So you do the best you can,
you mark it up so
that there aren't accessibility failures.
Like if there's image tags in there,
if you absolutely don't have alt texts for
them, put an empty alt
attribute at least so
that it's not reading out some
totally gibberish cached file name or
something cuz that's what will
happen without an alt attribute.
But ideally we can come up with
some sort of dynamic solution.
Yeah, see what you can do, I guess.